# training_cascade
scripts useful for trainning opencv haar cascades

after git clone run

chmod +x setupdir.sh

./setupdir.sh

to set up the directory structure to the following

training_cascade

----data

--------accept_info

--------bg_info

--------cascades

--------negatives

--------negatives_download

--------positives

--------vec

----scripts

--------format_neg

--------create_images


In more detail:

-accept_info:
	In this directory .lst files will be stored. Such files are produced by the opencv_annotation tool (which can be used either directly or through the cut_positives.sh script) and store information about the location of the desired object in the positive image.

-bg_info:
	In this directory bg files will be stored. Bg files contain a list with the names (/locations) of the images which will be used as negative samples. The bg file can be created manually or by means of the format_negatives.py script in scripts/format_neg or via neg.sh and will be later fed to the opencv training tool.

-cascades:
	In this directory will be stored the cascades trained with opencv. Each cascade needs a folder, where output files from the muliple stages of the training can be stored, so to avoid throwing everything in this single folder , it is recommended to create a subfolder for each cascade to be trained and name it accordingly.

-negatives / negatives_download:
	Two folders where negative images will be stored. The latter is diffrent than the first in that it contains only "raw" negative images whereas the first can contain processed versions of the raw images, as well as negative samples generated by parts of the positives images.


(to be continued.....)



